>> Major advancements in
artificial intelligence,
but our computer's
learning too much too fast.
What will this mean for
the future of humanity?
This is Gaia News.
[THEME MUSIC]
The New York Times reports a
new artificial intelligence
technology called GPT-3 has
stunned even its programmers.
This technology operates on
what is called a neural network,
loosely modeled on
how our brains work,
and used to predict what word
will come next in a sentence.
After spending months studying
our language, our behavior,
and the internet,
GPT-3 learned not only
to predict the next word
but whole paragraphs,
writing fake blogs, tweets,
and even mimicking the writing
style of individual people.
But perhaps, most surprising,
The New York Times
writes, quote, "it generates
tweets, pens poetry,
summarizes emails,
answers trivia questions,
translates languages, and
even writes its own computer
programs all with
very little prompting.
Some of these skills caught
even the experts off-guard."
Computers acting just like
humans, what's the benefit?
>> The only benefits I could
see of creating an AI technology
will be to help in different
fields of maybe medicine
and different types of sciences.
But the problem with that is
how you keep control of it.
And that this thing can
become completely self-aware,
it can then realize what does
it even need human beings
for if it had the capability
according to somebody's
articles I read of even
analyzing and rewriting
some of its own program?
The only problem is because
of the speed of the processing
capability and its reach,
it could become extremely
detrimental to human beings.
>> Meantime, other researchers
have taken things further,
creating artificial intelligence
with the ability to manipulate.
The MIT Technology Review
reports researchers
at Georgia Tech and
Facebook AI, wanted
to make artificial
intelligence that did
more than generate
words for a reason.
Researchers used a
text-based video game
where the AI was
given an objective
and had to figure out how
to accomplish the task.
MIT Technology
Review writes, quote,
"they train the AI to complete
quests just by using language.
If the AI needed
a sword, it could
choose to steal one or
convince another character
to hand one over."
Computers are a major
part of modern life,
but is this going too far?
>> They have an article about
the AI where it's being taught
to manipulate and persuade.
The other thing about
this that's so dangerous
is that they can
actually manipulate
to make you think
that it's somebody
that it's actually not.
They can analyze
all the information
on a particular person
and they can actually
incorporate that into itself
and become that person.
There's so much
going on here that
can be used by the
military industrial complex
to really set people up
in ways that can put them
in a very bad situation when
they may be totally innocent.
>> How do we keep artificial
intelligence from turning
against us?
>> If we can become conscious
enough as a people on this
planet to prevent
this, quote, unquote,
Skynet from taking over, and
find the possible applications
where this can be a
positive thing for humanity,
it can be a win-win
for everyone.
So it's an eye-opener for us and
it says to us, hey, humanity,
we need to make a
big change inside.
>> If artificial intelligence
really is just a reflection
of human intelligence, with
the right parameters in place,
could we be the masters of
our own destiny with the help
of AI?
Think about that the next
time you post on social media.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.